<h2><strong>Git</strong></h2><p>Git allows groups of people to work on the same documents (often code) at the same time, and without stepping on each other's toes. It's a distributed version control system.</p><p><code>git help &lt;command&gt;</code>: gives help on the requested command.</p><p><strong>Directory:</strong> A folder used for storing multiple files.</p><p><strong>Repository:</strong> A directory where Git has been initialized to start version controlling your files.</p><hr/><h4>Configuration</h4><p><code>git config --global user.name &lt;username&gt;</code>: set up your git username.</p><p><code>git config --global user.email &lt;usermail&gt;</code>: set up your git email.</p><p><code>git config --global alias.myLog &#34;log --pretty=format: '%h %s [%an]' --graph&#34;</code>: set up an alias for displaying a log more easily. Runs with <code>git myLog</code>.</p><p><code>git config --global alias.lol &#34;log --graph --decorate --pretty=oneline --abbrev-commit --all&#34;</code>. Runs with <code>git lol</code>.</p><p><code>git config --global alias.st status</code>. Runs with <code>git st</code>. Great for frequently used commands.<br/></p><hr/><h4>Initialization</h4><p><code>git init</code> : initializes a <b>Git repository </b>in our directory. It creates a <b>.git directory </b>that is usually hidden &amp; where all the internals are handled.</p><p><code>git clone <code>https://github.com/&lt;existingGithubRepo.git&gt; &lt;optional dirName&gt;</code></code>: clone an existing repository (the link is available in Github).</p><ul><li>downloads the entire repo in the dirName directory.</li><li>adds the 'origin' remote pointing to the clone URL.</li><li>checks out the initial branch (usually master) &amp; sets the HEAD.<br/></li></ul><hr/><h4>Remote</h4><p></p><p><code>git remote add &lt;repoName&gt; https://github.com/&lt;existingGithubRepo.git&gt;</code> : adds a remote repository to our app, in this case on github. It allows us to push commits on a remote server. By convention, the repoName is usually <b>origin</b>.</p><p><code>git remote rm &lt;repoName&gt;</code> : remove a remote repository.</p><p><code>git remote -v</code> : lists all the remotes.</p><p><code>git remote show <code>&lt;repoName&gt;</code></code> : lists all the branches of a remote repo.</p><p><code>git push<code>&lt;repoName&gt; :&lt;branchName&gt;</code></code> : deletes the remote branch, but not the local one.</p><p><code>git remote prune<code>&lt;repoName&gt;</code></code> : deletes the local references to all remote branch that have been deleted on the remote repo.</p><p><code>git push heroku-staging<code>&lt;branchName&gt;:master</code></code> : deploy the &lt;branchName&gt; on heroku-staging (heroku only deploys branches called master).<br/></p><p></p><hr/><h4>Follow Up</h4><p><code>git status</code> : checks the current state of our project vs the last commit. It indicates:</p><ul><li><strong>staged:</strong> Files are ready to be committed.</li><li> <strong>unstaged:</strong> Files with changes that have not been prepared to be committed.</li><li> <strong>untracked:</strong> Files aren't tracked by Git yet. This usually indicates a newly created file.</li><li> <strong>deleted:</strong> File has been deleted and is waiting to be removed from Git.</li></ul><p><br/><code>git config --global color.ui true</code>: improves the look of the log.</p><p><code>git log --summary</code> : shows all the commits that have been made to the project. Adding <code>--summary</code> shows more information about each commit, including where new files were added for the first time or where files were deleted. It's a good overview of what's going on in the project.</p><p><code>git<code>log --pretty=oneline</code></code> : only show the commit SHA code + its message.</p><p><code>git<code>log --oneline -p</code></code> : shows the deleted &amp; added lines for each modified file of the commit.</p><p><code>git<code>log --oneline --stat</code></code> : shows the number of deletions &amp; additions for each modified file of the commit.</p><p><code>git<code>log --oneline --graph</code></code>: shows the visual representation of the branches history.</p><p><code>git<code>log --since=2012-01-01 --until=1.hour.ago</code></code> : shows the number of deletions &amp; additions for each modified file of the commit.<br/></p><p><i>More details on log with <b>git help log</b>.</i><br/></p><hr/><h4>Push</h4><blockquote><p>A &#34;commit&#34; is a snapshot of our repository. This way if we ever need to look back at the changes we've made (or if someone else does), we will see a nice timeline of all changes.<br/></p></blockquote><p><code>git add &lt;filename&gt;</code> : adds a file to the <b>staging area</b>. It allows Git to start tracking changes made to it. <br/></p><ul><li><code>git add *</code> : includes all files of a certain type located in a directory &amp; subdirectories. In this case, it is good practice to run a quick <code>git status</code> to ensure we commit only what we planned.</li><li><code>git add '*'</code> : includes all files of a certain type located in the whole project.<b></b><br/></li><li><code>git add -A .</code> : includes <b>all files</b> from a directory &amp; subdirectories (the dot stands for the current directory).  The <code>-A</code> ensures even file deletions are included.</li><li><code>git add -all</code> : includes <b>all new or modified files</b>.<br/></li><li><code>git reset &lt;filename&gt;</code> to <b>remove </b>a file from the staging area. </li> <br/></ul><p><code>git commit</code> : stores our staged changes.<br/></p><ul><li><code>git commit -m &#34;message&#34;</code> : adds a message describing what we've changed.</li><li><code>git commit -a</code> : add changes to all the <b>tracked </b>files, including the removal of deleted files. No new file will be included.</li><li><code>git commit --amend</code> : add the stage to the last commit. Adding <code>-m</code> will override the previous message for the commit.<br/></li><li><code>git reset --soft HEAD^</code> : reverts the last commit back to a simple staging (use <code>--hard</code> for no staging) &amp; move back to the previous commit <code>HEAD^</code>. Use multiple <code>^<code>^</code></code> to revert back multiple times.<br/></li><br/></ul><p><code>git push -u &lt;repoName&gt; &lt;branchName&gt;</code> : push our local commits to our repo. Adding <code>-u</code> allows us to save this setup so next time we can use<code>git push</code> alone. <br/></p><p><i>More details on password caching <a href="https://help.github.com/articles/set-up-git" target="_blank">here</a>.</i><br/></p><hr/><h4>Pull + Diff<br/></h4><p><code>git pull &lt;repoName&gt; &lt;branchName&gt;</code> : pull the repo to our local directory. It shows what has happened during the sync. We can use <code>git stash / git stash apply</code> to temporarily put some changes aside during the pull.</p><blockquote><p>Diff shows changes in files, not only commit informations.<br/></p></blockquote><p><code>git diff </code>: shows in details the <b>unstaged differences </b>since the last commit.</p><p><code>git diff --staged</code> : shows in details the <b>staged differences </b>since the last commit. <br/></p><p><code>git diff HEAD</code> : shows in details what has changed between your last commit and the new version pulled from the repo. <code>HEAD</code> refers to your last commit.</p><p><code>git diff HEAD~3 HEAD</code> : shows in details what has changed between the third to last commit and your last commit.</p><p><code>git diff &lt;SHA1&gt; &lt;SHA2&gt;</code> : shows in details what has changed between two commits.</p><p><code>git diff &lt;branch1&gt; &lt;branch2&gt;</code> : shows in details what has changed between two branches.</p><p><code>git diff<code>--since=2012-01-01 --until=1.hour.ago</code></code> : shows in details what has changed between two dates.</p><p><code>git blame<code>&lt;fileName&gt; --date short</code></code> : shows in details the commit history of a file.</p><p><code>.git/info/exclude</code> : makes git ignore a local directory &#34;dirName/&#34; or a file &#34;dir/*.ext&#34;.</p><p><code>.gitignore</code> : makes git ignore a directory &#34;dirName/&#34; or a file &#34;dir/*.ext&#34; everywhere.<br/></p><p><code>git<code>checkout --</code>&lt;fileNames&gt;</code> : reverts back to the last commited version of the files. <br/></p><p><i>More details on complex hooks <a href="http://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Customizing-Git-Git-Hooks" target="">here</a>.</i><br/></p><hr/><h4>Branching</h4><blockquote><p>The timeline of the project includes all commits made in all branches.<br/></p></blockquote><p><code>git branch &lt;newBranchName&gt;</code> : creates a copy of the code, so developers can make separate commits when they are working on a feature or bug, without impacting the master.</p><p><code>git branch</code> : shows all existing branches, including master. Adding <code><code>-r</code></code> shows all branch in the remote repo. <br/></p><p><code>git<code>checkout</code>&lt;branchName&gt;</code> : switch to the branchName branch. Adding <code><code>-b</code></code> creates a branch &amp; switches to it at the same time. <br/></p><p><code>git<code>push</code>&lt;repoName&gt; &lt;branchName&gt;</code> : push the branch to the remote repo to start tracking it. It can easily be accessed in github by clicking on the branch button.</p><p>Note that when doing a <code>git<code>checkout</code>&lt;branchName&gt;</code> that is not locally installed, the next pull will sync with the relevant branch.<br/></p><p><i>More details on pull requests <a href="https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests/" target="">here</a>.</i><br/></p><hr/><h4>Merging</h4><p><code>git branch &lt;masterBranchName&gt;</code> </p><p><code>git merge &lt;branchToMerge&gt;</code>: merges the branchToMerge into the current one, on this case Master.</p><p><code>git branch -d &lt;branchToMerge&gt;</code>: deletes the merged branch, as it is not needed anymore. Using <code>git -D</code> forces a deletion even if it has not been merged.</p><p><br/></p><hr/><h4>Fetching &amp; Rebasing<br/></h4><p><code>git fetch</code>: pulls down any changes made on github, but without merging them.</p><p><code>git rebase</code>: <br/></p><ol><li>Move all the changes made to the local branch that are not in the remote repo to a temp area.<br/></li><li>Run all remote commits that are not yet on the local branch (basically syncing the local branch with the remote).</li><li>Run all the commits of the temp area one at a time.</li></ol><p><br/></p><p><code>git checkout &lt;branchName&gt; </code>+ <code>git rebase master</code> + <code>git checkout master </code>+ <code>git merge admin</code><br/></p><ol><li>Run all the commits of master.</li><li>Run all the commits of &lt;branchName&gt;.</li><li>Fast forwards the master to the merged state.</li></ol><p><br/></p><p>In case of conflits, once the conflit is solved:<code>git add &lt;resolvedFiles&gt;</code>+ <code>git rebase --continue</code></p><p></p><hr/><h4>Tagging</h4><blockquote>Tagging is mainly used for project milestones like version releases.<br/></blockquote><p><code>git tag</code>: lists all tags.<code><br/></code></p><p><code>git checkout &lt;tagName&gt;</code>: switch back to the code commited using the &lt;tagName&gt;.</p><p><code>git tag -a &lt;tagName&gt; -m &#34;message&#34;</code>: add a tag ready to be used. The <code><code>-a</code></code> tells git that the tag has an annotation<br/></p><p><code>git push --tags</code>: push the commit using the registered tags.<br/></p><hr/><h4>Misc</h4><p><code>git rm -r &lt;dirOrfiles&gt;</code> : recursively removes from the local disk a folder &amp; its subfolders, or a file, or a group of files when using a wildcard. It also stages the removal of files in the repo.</p><p><code>git rm --cached &lt;dirOrfiles&gt;</code> : removes directories &amp; files from the repo but not the local system. It still needs a commit.<br/></p><p>If files are removed without using <code>git rm</code>, ie. directly from the explorer, we can use <code>git commit -a</code> to auto remove deleted files with the commit.</p><!--StartFragment--><hr style="height: 0px;color: rgb(77, 59, 45);background-color: rgb(255, 255, 255);"/><h4 style="color: rgb(77, 59, 45);background-color: rgb(255, 255, 255);">REBASE INTERACTIVE</h4><p>We can use <code style="color: rgb(191, 19, 64);background-color: rgb(249, 242, 244);">git rebase -i HEAD~n</code><span style="color: rgb(77, 59, 45);float: none;background-color: rgb(255, 255, 255);"> to update our last n commits. They can be reordered, edited (to split in two separate commits for instance), squashed together, or the commit message can be reworded.</span></p><p><br/></p><p><br/></p><p><br/></p><p><br/></p><p><br/></p>